# 3.6 - Lab 7

## Objectives

- Generate a kubeconfig file for the cluster
- Create a RoleBinding to allow Developer access

## Generate a KubeConfig File

1. Using the terminal, navigate to the `Workspace` directory.

    `cd ~/Workspace`

2. Verify that the cluster is running correctly.

    `tanzu cluster get tkc-01`

    The READY columns displays `True`.

3. Generate a kubeconfig file for the cluster that does not have admin permissions.

    `tanzu cluster kubeconfig get tkc-01 --export-file kubeconfig-developers.yaml`

    NOTE:

    This kubeconfig file will be used in an upcoming lab to access the cluster as a developer user.

4. Display the file contents to see the Pinniped configuration parameters.

    `cat kubeconfig-developers.yaml`

    Because `--admin` was not used, this kubeconfig file will redirect the user to Pinniped and authentication will be performed using LDAP.

## Create Role Binding to Grant Developer Access

1. Using the terminal, navigate to the `Workspace` directory.

    `cd ~/Workspace`

2. Set the kubectl context to the tkc-01 cluster.

    `kubectl config use-context tkc-01-admin@tkc-01`

3. Display the cluster role binding.

    `cat ldap-group-role-binding.yaml`

    The subjects field contains tkg-developers.

    The roleRef field contains cluster-admin.

    ```yaml
    kind: ClusterRoleBinding
    apiVersion: rbac.authorization.k8s.io/v1
    metadata:
      name: developers-ldap-group
    subjects:
    - kind: Group
      name: tkg-developers
      apiGroup: ""
    roleRef:
      kind: ClusterRole
      name: cluster-admin
      apiGroup: rbac.authorization.k8s.io
    ```

4. Apply the cluster role binding.

    `kubectl apply -f ldap-group-role-binding.yaml`
